# Lab2
### Learning Objective:
To understand the use of Heuristic function for reducing the size of the search space.  Explore non-classical search algorithms for large problems.

### Problem Statement:
1. Read about the game of marble solitaire. 
Figure shows the initial board configuration. 
The goal is to reach the board configuration where only one marble is left at the centre. 
To solve marble solitaire, 
(1) Implement priority queue based search considering path cost, 
(2) suggest two different heuristic functions with justification, 
(3) Implement best first search algorithm, 
(4) Implement A*, 
(5) Compare the results of various search algorithms.
Refer [Marble_Solitaire.ipynb](https://github.com/slytechiefrommagentashore/cs302_AritificialIntelligence/blob/main/Lab%202/Lab2-main/Marble_Solitaire.ipynb)
2. Write a program to randomly generate k-SAT problems. 
The program must accept values for k, m the number of clauses in the formula, and n the number of variables. 
Each clause of length k must contain distinct variables or their negation. 
Instances generated by this algorithm belong to fixed clause length models of SAT and are known as uniform random k-SAT problems.
Refer [UniformkSAT.ipynb](https://github.com/slytechiefrommagentashore/cs302_AritificialIntelligence/blob/main/Lab%202/Lab2-main/UniformkSAT.ipynb)
 3. Write programs to solve a set of uniform random 3-SAT problems for different combinations of m and n, and compare their performance.  Try the Hill-Climbing, Beam-Search with beam widths 3 and 4, Variable-Neighborhood-Descent with 3 neighborhood functions.  Use two different heuristic functions and compare them with respect to penetrance.
Refer [3SAT.ipynb](https://github.com/slytechiefrommagentashore/cs302_AritificialIntelligence/blob/main/Lab%202/Lab2-main/3SAT.ipynb)
# Lab3
### Learning Objective:
Non-deterministic Search | Simulated Annealing
For problems with large search spaces, randomized search becomes a meaningful option given
partial/ full-information about the domain.<br>
Reference:<br>
[1] A first course in Artificial Intelligence, Deepak Khemani (Chapter 4)
Problem: <br>
Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP) is a hard problem, and is simple to state. Given a graph in which the nodes are locations of cities, and edges are labelled with the cost of travelling between cities, find a cycle containing each city exactly once, such that the total cost of the tour is as low as possible.Refer [tsp_lab3_.ipynb](https://github.com/slytechiefrommagentashore/cs302_AritificialIntelligence/blob/main/Lab%203%20Assignment/Lab%203%20Assignment%20_TSP%20problem/tsp_Lab3_.ipynb)<br>
For the state of Rajasthan, find out at least twenty important tourist locations. Suppose your relatives are about to visit you next week. Use Simulated Annealing to plan a cost effective tour of Rajasthan. It is reasonable to assume that the cost of travelling between two locations is proportional to the distance between them.<br>
An interesting problem domain with TSP instances:<br>
VLSI: http://www.math.uwaterloo.ca/tsp/vlsi/index.html#XQF131<br>
(Attempt at least five problems from the above list and compare your results.)<br>
[tsp_lab3_.ipynb](https://github.com/slytechiefrommagentashore/cs302_AritificialIntelligence/tree/main/Lab%203%20Assignment/Lab%203%20Assignment%20_TSP%20problem)
